---
layout: post
title: Professional Self Assessment
date: 2021-07-31 13:32:20 +0300
description: You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. # Add post description (optional)
img: portfolio-pic.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [] # add tag
---
This Capstone project has shown me how much I have actually learned throughout my computer science journey. There is so much to learn and this subject is so deep that I get discouraged and intimidated with new projects and concepts sometimes, but when I look back to when I started, my improvement is massive. I remember speaking to a javascript developer friend in 2016 when I had first embarked on this journey and I didn’t even know simple terms like what an array is, a function, different programming languages, anything. I couldn't even speak about software development in an informed and intelligent way, I just knew I was interested. A lot of the terms I know now seem so commonplace, but it’s important for me to remember where I started, and know that this field requires constant learning. 
	There are a lot of jobs in my area that start off in a collaborative team environment, and I feel that I would do well in one of these roles after learning about different approaches, such as waterfall and agile. I don’t have any experience yet in this type of environment, but I am very happy I was exposed to these styles throughout my coursework. 
	Communication in general and especially in this field is extremely important to the success of a project. One of the areas I feel I excel in is communicating complex development problems in layman’s terms. Stakeholders want to know what they are getting and they want it to match their vision. It is the developer’s job to turn that vision into a reality. 
	Data structures and algorithms is one of the areas I feel least confident about. Most of the time when I am developing something, I am just trying to make it run without errors. I think the more experience I gain will help me in this field, because using the right data structures and developing a solid algorithm will optimize the program I am working on. 
	I have learned a ton about software engineering and databases throughout this program. When I first started, I had no idea about the different types of databases SQL vs. NOSQL, cloud based or internal storage. All of these options dictate how a program will run and it is important to understand the benefits and drawbacks of each one. For instance if I were to use internal storage on an application it would work very quickly and without the need for internet access, but if the user doesn’t have the storage they cannot even use it. 
	Security is one the areas I could most improve. This subject is so deep in and of itself and people that try to breach security are very good at what they do. Proper security entails a very specific and intimate knowledge of how your software works to keep it from being exploited. 

 I believe all of these projects I created throughout my coursework fit together in a cohesive way that showcases the skills and abilities I have acquired throughout the computer science program. I am very happy with my software and engineering app. It is a plant care app that I developed in android studio. The interface looks great to me, the code is clean and easy to understand and I show skills in java development and android studio. The second artifact is a REST API built in a virtual environment within Python, using the Flask framework linked to a NOSQL database called Mongo. I am also very happy with this program, because it shows that I can link multiple languages and frameworks together to make a backend web development program. My last artifact is an application that I developed in android studio that links SQLite database. With this application I show proficiency in another type of database.

